ENG-26279: initial draft on preparing documents with docling (#841)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: modules/preparing-documents-with-docling-for-llama-stack-retrieval.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE

[id="preparing-documents-with-docling-for-llama-stack-retrieval_{context}"]
= Preparing documents with Docling for Llama Stack retrieval

[role="_abstract"]
You can transform your source documents with a Docling-enabled data science pipeline and ingest the output into a Llama Stack vector store by using the Llama Stack SDK. This modular approach separates document preparation from ingestion, yet still delivers an end-to-end, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) workflow.

The pipeline registers a Milvus vector database and downloads the source PDFs, then splits them for parallel processing and converts each batch to Markdown with Docling. It generates sentence-transformer embeddings from the Markdown and stores them in the vector store, making the documents instantly searchable in Llama Stack.

.Prerequisites
* You have logged in to {openshift-platform} web console.

> * You have a data science project and access to Pipelines in the {productname-short} dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have a data science project and access to pipelines in the {productname-short} dashboard.
```
Not sure if this needs to be capitalized.

* You have created and configured a pipeline server within the data science project that contains your workbench.
* You have configured a Llama Stack deployment.

> * You have deployed a Llama 3.2 model with a vLLM model server and you are aware of its endpoint URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have deployed a Llama 3.2 model with a vLLM model server and you know its endpoint URL.
```

> * You have deployed a Llama 3.2 model with a vLLM model server and you are aware of its endpoint URL.

Author: Changed to your suggestion.

* You have created a project workbench within a data science project.
* You have opened a Jupyter notebook and it is running in your workbench environment.
* You have a created and configured a vector database instance and you know its identifier. Alternatively, you know the credentials required to register a vector database instance. 
ifdef::self-managed[]
* Your environment has network access to the vector database service through {openshift-platform}.
endif::[]

> * You have installed local object storage buckets and created connections, as described in xref:storing-data-with-connections[Storing data with connections].

Reviewer: Does the `xref` link here work?

Author: I am going to remove this xref. It links out to the Fraud Detection demo, which wouldn't be appropriate in the context of this module. I will replace it with a proper link to "Adding connections to your data science project", which would be more appropriate in these circumstances.

ifndef::upstream[]
* You have enabled GPU support in {productname-short}. This includes installing the Node Feature Discovery operator and NVIDIA GPU Operators. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/{ocp-latest-version}/html/specialized_hardware_and_driver_enablement/psap-node-feature-discovery-operator#installing-the-node-feature-discovery-operator_psap-node-feature-discovery-operator[Installing the Node Feature Discovery operator^] and link:{rhoaidocshome}{default-format-url}/managing_openshift_ai/enabling_accelerators#enabling-nvidia-gpus_managing-rhoai[Enabling NVIDIA GPUs^].
endif::[]
ifdef::upstream[]
* You have enabled GPU support. This includes installing the Node Feature Discovery and NVIDIA GPU Operators. For more information, see link:https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/openshift/latest/index.html[NVIDIA GPU Operator on {org-name} OpenShift Container Platform^] in the NVIDIA documentation. 
endif::[]

> * You have a pipeline that contains a Docling transform and you have compiled this pipeline into YAML format. 

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about this. The doc could have a section with a  link to the example pipelines at https://github.com/opendatahub-io/rag/tree/main/demos/kfp

Author: Are we assuming that the example pipelines are going to be used by a customer? I'm happy to include the link to the example pipelines, but can we be sure what the customer will actually use?

Author: How about:

You have compiled to YAML a data science pipeline that includes a Docling transform, either one of the RAG demo samples <link here> or your own custom pipeline.

> * You have PDF documents ready for ingestion and know their storage location.

Reviewer 2: When using the sample pipeline at https://github.com/opendatahub-io/rag/blob/main/demos/kfp/pdf-conversion/docling_convert_pipeline_compiled.yaml one of the input parameters is the base url of the docs

Author: Would a more appropriate prerequisite be: 

"You know the base URL that contains the PDF documents for ingestion."

.. or if they already compiled the pipeline, then they would already know the base URL?

Author: Commenting line 31 out for now.

* Your data science project quota allows between 500 millicores (0.5 CPU) and 4 CPU cores for the pipeline run.
* Your data science project quota allows from 2 GiB up to 6 GiB of RAM for the pipeline run.
* If you are using GPU acceleration, you have at least one NVIDIA GPU available.

.Procedure

> . In a new notebook cell, install the `llama_stack` client package:

Reviewer 2: The sample pipeline is already registering the vector db [here](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/rag/blob/b1ecde0308db9a7d8b0d19329df3a004d7fcf9f7/demos/kfp/pdf-conversion/docling_convert_pipeline.py#L44), so there is no need do before running the pipeline

Author: It depends on whether the user actually uses the sample pipeline. In normal circumstances, they might have their own pipeline code, and they won't use the sample. I guess the sample is only for demonstration purposes and customers might have their own? If the customer is using the sample, they would need to register the vector database with the suggested code.

provider_id=provider_id,
)
print(f"Registered vector DB: {vector_db_id}")
----

ifndef::upstream[]
. In the {openshift-platform} web console, import the YAML file containing your docling pipeline into your data science project, as described in link:{rhoaidocshome}{default-format-url}/working_with_data_science_pipelines/managing-data-science-pipelines_ds-pipelines#importing-a-data-science-pipeline_ds-pipelines[Importing a data science pipeline].
endif::[]
ifdef::upstream[]
. In the {openshift-platform} web console, import your YAML file containing your docling pipeline into your data science project, as described in link:{odhdocshome}/working-with-data-science-pipelines/#importing-a-data-science-pipeline_ds-pipelines[Importing a pipeline version].
endif::[]

ifndef::upstream[]
. Create a pipeline run to execute your Docling pipeline, as described in link:{rhoaidocshome}{default-format-url}/working_with_data_science_pipelines/managing-data-science-pipelines_ds-pipelines#executing-a-pipeline-run_ds-pipelines[Executing a pipeline run]. The pipeline run inserts your PDF documents into the vector database. Before you run the Docling pipeline, you can customize the following parameters:

> * base_url: The bse URL to fetch PDF files from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* base_url: The base URL to fetch PDF files from.
```

> * base_url: The bse URL to fetch PDF files from.

Reviewer: Should the items in this list be `code-formatted`?

Author: Yes. Added formatting.

> * pdf_filenames: A Comma-separated list of PDF filenames to download and convert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* pdf_filenames: A comma-separated list of PDF filenames to download and convert.
```

Author: Corrected.

* num_workers: The number of parallel workers.
* vector_db_id: The Milvus vector database ID.
* service_url: The Milvus service URL.
* embed_model_id: The embedding model to use.
* max_tokens: The maximum tokens for each chunk.
* use_gpu: Enable or disable GPU acceleration.
endif::[]

ifdef::upstream[]
. Create a pipeline run to execute your Docling pipeline, as described in link:{odhdocshome}/working-with-data-science-pipelines/#executing-a-pipeline-run_ds-pipelines[Executing a pipeline run]. The pipeline run inserts your PDF documents into the vector database. Before you run the Docling pipeline, you can customize the following parameters:

> * base_url: The base URL to fetch PDF files from.

Reviewer: Should the items in this list be `code-formatted`?

> * pdf_filenames: A Comma-separated list of PDF filenames to download and convert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* pdf_filenames: A comma-separated list of PDF filenames to download and convert.
```

Author: Corrected.

* num_workers: The number of parallel workers.
* vector_db_id: The Milvus vector database ID.
* service_url: The Milvus service URL.
* embed_model_id: The embedding model to use.
* max_tokens: The maximum tokens for each chunk.
* use_gpu: Enable or disable GPU acceleration.
endif::[]

.Verification

> . To ascertain if the document ingestion has been successful, in your Jupyter notebook, query the LLM with a question that relates to the ingested content. Here is an example:   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your Jupyter notebook, query the LLM with a question that relates to the ingested content. For example:   
```
I think we can remove the first part of this sentence because the "Verification" heading implies that we're trying to figure out if it worked :)

Author: Changed to your suggestion.

ifdef::upstream[]
. In the {openshift-platform} web console, import your YAML file containing your docling pipeline into your data science project, as described in link:{odhdocshome}/working-with-data-science-pipelines/#importing-a-data-science-pipeline_ds-pipelines[Importing a pipeline version].
endif::[]

ifndef::upstream[]
. Create a pipeline run to execute your Docling pipeline, as described in link:{rhoaidocshome}{default-format-url}/working_with_data_science_pipelines/managing-data-science-pipelines_ds-pipelines#executing-a-pipeline-run_ds-pipelines[Executing a pipeline run]. The pipeline run inserts your PDF documents into the vector database. Before you run the Docling pipeline, you can customize the following parameters:

* `base_url`: The base URL to fetch PDF files from.
* `pdf_filenames`: A comma-separated list of PDF filenames to download and convert.
* `num_workers`: The number of parallel workers.
* `vector_db_id`: The Milvus vector database ID.
* `service_url`: The Milvus service URL.
* `embed_model_id`: The embedding model to use.
* `max_tokens`: The maximum tokens for each chunk.
* `use_gpu`: Enable or disable GPU acceleration.
endif::[]

ifdef::upstream[]

> . Create a pipeline run to execute your Docling pipeline, as described in link:{odhdocshome}/working-with-data-science-pipelines/#executing-a-pipeline-run_ds-pipelines[Executing a pipeline run]. The pipeline run inserts your PDF documents into the vector database. Before you run the Docling pipeline, you can customize the following parameters:

Author: Added something similar to your suggestion.
